So before actually touching our code,
let's briefly understand the folders that
we have in our project,
both in VS code and in Android Studio.
To be honest, the Android Studio project
is actually much more complex in terms of
the files that you have inside, okay?
But it's kind of the same thing.
So let's see.
We are going to keep all the folders
starting with dart.
We know that dart means it's
a private folder for some tools.
So this is part of the Dart compiler or
the Flutter SDK,
so we don't care about those.
Then we have an android folder.
So what is the android folder?
This is actually the Android Studio
project that Flutter is going
to use to compile your app.
If you know Android development, native
development, you can go out and open that
folder in Android Studio and customize the
native part of your Flutter application.
It will be like the container
of your Android application.
Okay, it makes sense.
If you're on a Mac,
you will also find the iOS application.
The iOS folder contains an Xcode project.
The same idea, this is actually
the project that is used as a wrapper for
the Flutter application.
Every time you build an app in Flutter,
it's not going to change
the contents of those projects.
Those projects are static,
meaning that it's safe to open
these projects in Android Studio or
Xcode and touch the project to
customize the project to your needs.
So it's not going to be overriding this.
I'm telling you this because if you
have ever played with PhoneGap or
Apache Cordova, if you know what that is,
they were using the same technique.
But the Android project and
the Xcode project were actually being
overwritten every time you compile.
So it's actually a very bad
idea to use those projects but
here in Flutter, you can use a project.
Then we have a build folder where the
final build will actually appear later.
We'll talk about that later.
We have a web folder.
And what is the folder?
The web folder is similar to the the iOS
folder and the Android folder.
What we have here is
the wrapper of our web version.
And what's a wrapper for the web?
An index html.
So you can actually open the index
html and customize the html.
So changing the title, the metadata
because this is going to be the container,
the wrapper of your Flutter application.
Okay, make sense?
Well, on tests, we will insert
our test suites for unit testing.
Windows, it's something similar for
the Windows environment.
I think if you want to compile
the Windows executable.
And lib the for from library or
lib, is where our code will reside.
To be honest,
I prefer SRC as a folder name,
not lib because it's just like
standard libraries typically.
But anyway, this is where Flutter
will store your dart files, okay?
So we're going to integrate
all our files here.
And the other file that we're
going to use a couple of times, so
it's an important file.
It's pubspec.yaml.
There's a YAML file in case we
haven't played with YAML files before.
It's a configuration file.
So where we can actually
change some properties.
We can add dependencies.
We can set some things that
are used by the Flutter SDK.
So every time we compile,
every time we build our app,
it's going to take information from here.
So this is like package.json
in an NPM project.
It's the pubspec.yaml.
So far, we've seen Dart as the language.
And quickly,
how would you create a project.
So what if you try to run your
app on an Android emulator or
an IOS simulator in case you
have a Mac and it's not working.
One thing that you can do if you have
already installed your Flutter SDK and
the SD is, actually in the path,
you can open a terminal or
use any terminal in your OS.
And you can type flutter doctor.
That will actually make a couple
of analysis within your computer.
And it's going to check
if you have the SDKs.
If you have the Android emulator set up.
If you have everything set up.
And in my case, you can see everything
is green, so I'm good to go.
But you may have some reds there and
every red item will give you
instructions on what to do.
For example, the first time
you open the Android emulator,
you need to actually accept
some licenses from Google.
And flutter doctor will actually
tell you exactly what to do.
You just need to copy and paste
something in the terminal to accept all
those terms and conditions, so
then the emulator will work.
So in any case, when you have
a problem with an emulator or
with the Flutter compilation system,
just go and run flutter doctor.